# Two-way Data Binding
In this section, we will create project detail form to create/update the project. In this section we will understand below angular 2 concepts:
- Two-way data binding using [(ngModel)]
- Custom implementation of two-way data binding

Let's start the development of project detail form step-by-step.

## Step 1: Copy Supporting Directives 
We are implementing material design in our Project Management App using material design lite library(mdl). MDL do not provide dropdown, datepicker control and data-binding is not working with mdl-switch control. Also, the elements are not getting upgraded to material element because mdl do not work with dynamic elements. So I have created 5 directives to handle all such things. These directives are as follows:
- material-datepicker.directive.ts
- material-select.directiive.ts
- material-datepicker.directive.ts
- material-toggle.directive.ts
- materialize.directive.ts

All these directives are implemented using the concepts that we already know. Except two directives, which are material-datepicker and material-select. I have implemented custom two-way data binding in both these directives. We will go through only material-select directive in this section to understand custom two-way data binding. We will not go through any other directives. So you can copy the code of all the 5 directives from [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/3757a766eca5a15b00e8cd26166f497e3a9cb728). 

> To copy the code from code difference window, you need to click on **View** button, which is on the right side.


You also need to install two libraries, which are required by material-datepicker directive. So execute below command to install them.

```
npm install bootstrap-material-datetimepicker moment --save
```

Install type definition file be executing below command:
```
typings install moment --save
```

Import files of two downloaded libraries in index.html
```
<script src="node_modules/moment/moment.js"></script>
<script src="node_modules/bootstrap-material-datetimepicker/js/bootstrap-material-datetimepicker.js"></script>

 <link rel="stylesheet" href="node_modules/bootstrap-material-datetimepicker/css/bootstrap-material-datetimepicker.css">
```

## Step 2: Create project-employee-list Component
As you have seen in the expected output, that we want to use the employee grid which we have in project-detail component, inside our project-form component also. So just pull the code of employee grid from project-detail component and create a new component out of it. This component should accept employee list as mandatory input and isShowAction as optional input. If isShowAction is passed true, delete button will be shown, else it won't. 

We are not going to create this component here, so just copy the code of project-employee-list.component.html from [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/67e8f4784e3aad6b48d30e5cd8426a5c8e84e994#diff-493a5c87c945093b361335591e494123R1) and code of project-employee-list.component.ts from [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/67e8f4784e3aad6b48d30e5cd8426a5c8e84e994#diff-768496bc429b3a14d2e25f3907415327R1). Also do necessary changes in project-detail component by viewing it from [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/67e8f4784e3aad6b48d30e5cd8426a5c8e84e994#diff-ac3833064a5db953b135ee63976d0bdeR5)

## Step 3: Create ProjectFormComponent and Implement Two-way Data Binding
Now, let's start creating project detail form.  Instead of copying the whole code of project form component here, I am copying only code which has something new to understand in this section. You can view and copy the full code of this component from [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/67e8f4784e3aad6b48d30e5cd8426a5c8e84e994#diff-8e7393b945d232650494a10d75dba6feR1).

**app/projects/project-form.component.html**
```html
<form *ngIf="project" materialize>
    <div class="mdl-grid">
        <div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col">
            <div class="mdl-textfield mdl-js-textfield mdl-textfield--floating-label">
                <input class="mdl-textfield__input" type="text" id="projectName" 
                    [(ngModel)]="project.name" />
                <label class="mdl-textfield__label" for="projectName">Project Name</label>
            </div>
        </div>
        ...
    </div>
    ...
</form>
```

**app/projects/project-form.component.ts**
```typescript
...
export class ProjectFormComponent implements OnInit {
    ...
     project: Project;
     ...
}
```
Here, we have used `[(ngModel)]` in text field. It is used to do two-way data binding. Two-way data binding means, whenever data is changed in template, it will be changed in the component class and whenever it is changed in component class, it will be reflected in template.

This syntax is also called *banana in box* to remember it. There is a logical reason for this syntax. We know that `()` is used for event binding and `[]` is used for property binding. So here, property binding is used to bind data from component class to template and event binding is used for reverse binding. We will get to know more about this when we will create a custom two-way data binding in next step.

## Step 4: Custom Two-way Data Binding
As we discussed earlier that we will see how to implement two-way data binding in material-select directive, its time to see that.

**app/shared/material-select.directive.ts**
```typescript
import {Component, Input, Output, EventEmitter} from 'angular2/core';

@Component({
    selector: 'material-select',
    templateUrl: 'app/shared/directives/material-select.component.html',
    ...
})
export class MaterialSelect{
   ...
    @Input() selectedValue: any;
    @Output() selectedValueChange: any = new EventEmitter();
    
    selectItem(oItem: any){
        this.selectedValue = oItem;
        this.selectedValueChange.emit(oItem);
    }
}
```

**app/shared/material-select.directive.html**
```html
<div class="mdl-textfield mdl-js-textfield mdl-textfield--floating-label" 
    [class.is-dirty]="!!selectedValue" >
    <input class="mdl-textfield__input" type="text" id="{{name}}" 
        #selectedText [value]="displayOptionFn(selectedValue)" readonly tabIndex="-1">
    <label [attr.for]="name">
        <i class="mdl-icon-toggle__label material-icons">keyboard_arrow_down</i>
    </label>
    <label [attr.for]="name" class="mdl-textfield__label">{{label}}</label>
    <ul [attr.for]="name" class="mdl-menu mdl-menu--bottom-left mdl-js-menu">
        <li class="mdl-menu__item" *ngFor="#item of items" (click)="selectItem(item)" [style.width]="selectedText.clientWidth">...</li>
    </ul>
</div>
```

In template of this directive we have used many types of binding:
- one way data binding using `id="{{name}}"`
- class binding using `[class.is-dirty]="!!selectedValue"`
- attribute binding using `[attr.for]="name"`
- style binding and use of local template variable `[style.width]="selectedText.clientWidth"`
- property binding using `[value]="displayOptionFn(selectedValue)"`
- event binding using `(click)="selectItem(item)`

In this directive, we want `selectedValue` to have two-way data binding. So, we have declared `selectedValue` as input property and `selectedValueChange` as output property. This is standard in angular 2, that whenever you want to implement two-way data binding for some property, declare that property as input and create an output property with the same name as input property and append `Change` word after it. If we do this we can use that property for two-way data binding in template as shown below:

**app/projects/project-form.html**
```html
<div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--4-col">
            <material-select [(selectedValue)]="project.client" ...>
            </material-select>
</div>
```

In next section, we will understand how to maintain validity of form.