# Form Validity
In this section, we will implement client side form validation for project form. By implementing this, we will understand below angular 2 concepts:
- form control state tracking using ngControl and ngForm
- showing error message

## Step 1: Mark Project Name Field Mandatory
Our requirement is that, project name should always be captured. So let's make it required field.

**app/projects/project-form.component.html**
```html
<form ...>
    ...
    <input class="mdl-textfield__input" type="text" id="projectName" [(ngModel)]="project.name"
        required />
    <label class="mdl-textfield__label" for="projectName">Project Name*</label>
    ...    
</form>
```

## Step 2: Show Error Message If Value Not Entered
Now, we want to show an error message, when value is not entered in projectName textfield. But it should show error only once the user has interacted with the field. As we don't want to show an error message when user tries to create a new entry.

```html
<form ...>
    ...
    <input class="mdl-textfield__input" type="text" id="projectName" [(ngModel)]="project.name" 
        ngControl="projectName" #projectName="ngForm" required />
    <label class="mdl-textfield__label" for="projectName">Project Name*</label>
    <span *ngIf="!projectName.valid && !projectName.pristine" 
        class="mdl-textfield__error">Please enter project name</span>
    ...    
</form>
```
In above code, we used some new terms: `ngControl`, `ngForm`, `projectName.valid` and `projectName.pristine`. Let's understand what all they mean.

### ngControl
ngControl directive tracks state changes of the field. That means it tracks if the field is touched or not, user has tried to change the value of the field or not, field value is valid or not etc. Based on this field states, it also add/remove some classes to the element.

Various states are as follows:
- On control load, the control's state is `pristine` and `untouched`
- When user clicks/touch it, the control's state changes to `touched`
- When user tries to change it, the control's state will be `dirty` and `touched`
- If the change done by user is valid, the control's state will be `dirty`, `touched` and `valid`
- If the change done by user is invalid, the control's state will be `dirty`, `touched` and `invalid`

Classes added by ngControl directive based on above states are as follows:
- **pristine** - `ng-pristine`
- **untouched** - `ng-untouched`
- **touched** - `ng-touched`
- **dirty** - `ng-dirty`
- **valid** - `ng-valid`
- **invalid** - `ng-invalid`

If we want to access the state value of ngControl directive, we need to have access of it. This is served by `#projectName="ngForm"`. `ngControl` directive's [`exporteAs`](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/core/DirectiveMetadata-class.html#!#exportAs) property is `ngForm`. So we can assign that to a local template variable and refer this local template variable wherever we want to use the state of the field.
Have you noted that we have written `ngControl="projectName"` in the template. Here, `projectName` can be any name. ngControl directive will register the form control with this name  to `ngForm` directive. `ngForm` directive is automatically created on form elements.

So, in code,
```html
<span *ngIf="!projectName.valid && !projectName.pristine" 
        class="mdl-textfield__error">Please enter project name</span>
```
we are referring ngControl state using local template variable `projectName` and showing error message when form is dirty and invalid.


## Step 3: Prevent Form Submit If Form Is Invalid
We should not allow form to be submitted to backend server, if it is invalid. Let's write code for this:

**app/projects/project-form.component.html**
```html
<form #projectForm="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="save()" >
    ...
     <div class="text-right">
        ...
        <button type="submit" class="mdl-button mdl-js-button mdl-button--raised mdl-js-ripple-effect mdl-button--accent"
        [disabled]="!projectForm.valid">Save</button>
    </div>
</form>
```
In above code, on form element we have written `#projectForm="ngForm"`. Let's understand it.

As we discussed in previous step that angular automatically creates ngForm directive on form element. And its [`exporteAs`](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/core/DirectiveMetadata-class.html#!#exportAs) property is also set to `ngForm`. So here by writing `#projectForm="ngForm"`, we are assigning ngForm directive to local template variable `projectForm`. This variable has access to states of all the form controls on which we have added `ngControl` directive. Along with that this `ngForm` directive also has `valid` property. It will be true, if all the form controls inside the form are valid. So we can use it to disable the form submit button.  That is what we did by writing `[disabled]="!projectForm.valid"` code on submit button.

Here, we have used `(ngSubmit)` event for form submission. This event will be triggered on form is valid and user clicks on submit button of the form.

> I am not showing functionality to add/delete the project here as there is nothing new that we need to learn. You can see the code to implement these functionalities from [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/88239fdda9a04ba4deb44ad4e7ca9c65119ae37d) and [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/f25103fea451f199018ddeb03db0ac472eced140)

This bring the end of Forms chapter. In next chapter we will learn about routing.

If you have stuck somewhere, just checkout the code of this chapter by executing below command:
```
git checkout step-7
```