# Bootstrapping Application
Considering you know module, decorator and component now, let's implement that concepts to bootstrap our application.

## Step 1: Install material-design-lite library
We will implement material design in our app using [material-design-lite](https://www.getmdl.io/)  library. 

So, first install it by executing below command from your root directory.
```
npm install material-design-lite --save
```

Import javascript and css files of material-design-light in our `index.html` file.

**index.html**
```html
<head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="node_modules/material-design-lite/material.min.css" />
    <script src="node_modules/material-design-lite/material.min.js"></script>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/icon?family=Material+Icons" />
</head>
```
## Step 2: Create Root Component
As explained earlier, angular 2 application is a component hierarchy. So we need to create a root component which will nest all other components of the application.

Create a folder `app` in your project's root directory and then create `app.component.ts` file in it.

**app/app.component.ts**
```typescript
import {Component} from 'angular2/core';

@Component({
    selector: 'pm-app',
    templateUrl: 'app/app.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['app/app.component.css']
})
export class AppComponent{
    
}
```

In above code, 
- We imported component decorator from `angular2/core` module
- We created a class `AppComponent`, which will contain the view/application logic in future.
- Finally, we decorated the `AppComponent` class with `@Component` decorator to let angular know that this class should be considered as a component.
- Let's understand what is the use of configurations that we passed in component decorator:
    - **selector** : This is a css selector. Angular will find the element in DOM which matches with this selector and instantiate the component on that element. In our example, `pm-app` is an element selector, so angular will instantiate `AppComponent` on the element `<pm-app></pm-app>` in our template.
    
    - **templateUrl** : This specifies the url of the template for this component. If you have less content in your template, you can directly define it in your component using `template` property instead of creating a separate template file.
    
    - **styleUrls** : This specifies the url of the stylesheet files that you want to embed with this component. If you have less style rules, you can define it directly in your component using `styles` property instead of creating a separate stylesheet file. We will use `styles` property in future in this tutorial. It is necessary to understand that, the styles that are specified in the component will be applied only to this component and to its children component hierarchy.

## Step 3: Create Template and Stylesheet of AppComponent
As you know we specified `templateUrl` and `styleUrls` in our component, let's create that files.

**app/app.component.html**
```html
<div class="mdl-layout mdl-js-layout mdl-layout--fixed-drawer
            mdl-layout--fixed-header">
    <header class="mdl-layout__header">
        <div class="mdl-layout__header-row">
            <span class="mdl-layout__title">Projects </span>
        </div>
    </header>
    <div class="mdl-layout__drawer">
        <span class="mdl-layout-title">PM App</span>
        <nav class="mdl-navigation">
            <a class="mdl-navigation__link" href="">Projects</a>
        </nav>
    </div>
    <main class="mdl-layout__content">
        <div class="page-content">
            <h4 class="text-center">Welcome to Project Management App</h4>
        </div>
    </main>
</div>
```

There isn't anything specific to angular 2 here. These all code is related to [layout of mdl](https://www.getmdl.io/components/index.html#layout-section).

**app/app.component.css**
```css
.page-content{
    padding: 30px 40px;
}
.text-center{
    text-align: center;
}
.mdl-layout--fixed-drawer>.mdl-layout__header .mdl-layout__header-row{
    padding-left: 280px;
}
```

## Step 4: Add Our App's Root Element `pm-app`
As explained earlier, we need to write `<pm-app></pm-app>` element somewhere in our index.html file, so angular can instantiate the component on that element.

**index.html**
```html
 <body>
    <pm-app>Loading Project Management App...</pm-app>
 </body>
```  

We created a root component and added it to our index.html file. Now, if you run the application, you will only see message `Loading Project Management App...` in your browser instead of our root component's template. Because still we haven't bootstrapped the application. Let's do it in next steps.

## Step 5: Bootstrap App
Create `main.ts` file in your project's root directory.

**main.ts**
```typescript
import {bootstrap} from 'angular2/platform/browser';
import {AppComponent} from './app.component';

// bootstrapping app
bootstrap(AppComponent);
```

As shown in above code, angular's bootstrap function requires root component to bootstrap the app. So we imported `AppComponent` and passed it to bootstrap function to mark it as our root component.

## Step 6 Load main.js Using SystemJS
In our `index.html` add code to load `main.js` file dynamically.

**index.html**
```html
<head>
    <script>
      System.config({
        packages: {        
          app: {
            format: 'register',
            defaultExtension: 'js'
          }
        }
      });
      System.import('app/main');
    </script>
</head>
```
SystemJS is required to load ES6 modules. As `main.ts` is an ES6 module, we are loading it by calling `System.import` and once that module is loaded., it will execute code to bootstrap the application, which will in turn instantiate our root component and we should see the template written in `AppComponent` in our browser as an output.

If you are stuck somewhere, you can get all the code till this step by executing below command:
```
git checkout step-1
```