# Introduction
Angular 2 is a framework which helps us to create interactive client-side application using HTML and javascript. As of writing this tutorial, Angular 2 is in beta and it is planned to hit production release in 2016.
If you know Angular 1, you may have question, what are the benefits of using Angular 2 and why to
use it. 

## Major Advantages of Angular 2
### Performance
It is very fast as compared to Angular 1 as it implements ultrafast change detection, supports view caching and provides ability for server side rendering using Angular Universal.

### Cross Platform
We can use angular 2 to create native mobile application using Nativescript and hybrid mobile application using Ionic Framework. That means we can reuse some of the business logic across the platforms. Angular 2 aims to provide support to run the application in web worker so we can implement fluid interfaces.

### Easy To Learn
As compared to Angular 1, it has minimum concepts to digest and they are easy to reason. Angular 2 application is mostly built using ECMAScript standard without much of Angular specific code in javascript.

### Many Choices For Development
You can create your Angular 2 application using ES5, ES6, Typescript, Dart or any other language that compiles to javascript. Angular 2's source code is written in Typescript.

### Powerful Router and Dependency Injection
Angular 2 is shipped with powerful routing library. It provides support of nested routing, sibling routing, lazy loading and animated transition. Dependency injection in Angular 2 is very flexible and allows hierarchical dependency injection, which helps in making our code testable.

Now you know the advantages of Angular 2, let's learn it by creating a sample **Project Management App** step by step.