# Passing Data From Child Component To Parent Component
In this section, we will pass data from ProjectListComponent to its parent ProjectsComponent. This will give us the understanding of below angular 2 concepts:
- Use of @Output Decorator
- How to handle custom event in parent component

Let's start development.

## Step 1: Add Output Property In ProjectListComponent
To pass data from ProjectListComponent, we need to create an output property and use it to pass data on project selection change.

**app/projects/projects-list.component.ts**
```typescript
import {Component, OnInit, Output, EventEmitter} from 'angular2/core';
@Component({
    ...
})
export class ProjectListComponent{
    @Output() projectSelect = new EventEmitter();
    
     selectProject(selectedProject){
        ...
        this.projectSelect.emit(selectedProject);
    }
}
```

Here, `@Output` decorator is the new thing to learn.

### @Output Decorator
`@Output` decorator is used to mark a property as an output property. This output property is an event for its parent component. Output property takes an instance of `EventEmitter`. `EventEmitter` is a class which helps in emitting custom events from component/directives. 

In above code, we marked `projectSelect` property as an output property using `@Output` decorator and then initialized it with an instance of `EventEmitter`. 

Now, to pass the selected project on selection change, we need to emit the event using `projectSelect` property and pass the selectedProject as an argument.

## Step 2: Handle Custom Event In Parent Component
As ProjectsListComponent is emitting a custom event `projectSelect`, its parent component ProjectsComponent can capture such event by implementing event binding in template as shown in below code.

**app/projects/projects.component.html**
```html
...
<div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--3-col">
  <projects-list (projectSelect)="onProjectSelect($event)"></projects-list>
</div>
...  
```

Now implement `onProjectSelect` method in component class.

**app/projects/projects.component.ts**
```typescript
...
export class ProjectsComponent{
    selectedProject: any;
    
    onProjectSelect(selectedProject){
        this.selectedProject = selectedProject;
    }
}
```

Here, one thing to note is that, the data emitted by the ProjectsListComponent is accessible by using `$event` variable in the parent component's template.

Now, we have the selected project with us in our parent component. We will create project detail component in next section and pass this `selectedProject` value to it.