# Built-in Pipes
In this section, we will format start date and end date of ProjectDetailComponent to make it user readable. By doing this we will understand below angular 2 concept:
- Built-in Pieps Of Angular 2

## Step 1: Make Date Fields User Readable In Project Detail
To make the date fields start date and end date user readable without changing its data, we will use built-in `date` pipe in template of ProjectDetailComponent.

**app/project/project-detail.component.html**
```html
<div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--6-col">
    <dl>
        <dt>Start Date</dt>
        <dd>{{project.startDate | date}}</dd>
    </dl>
</div>
<div class="mdl-cell mdl-cell--6-col">
    <dl>
        <dt>End Date</dt>
        <dd>{{project.endDate | date}}</dd>
    </dl>
</div>
```
In above code, the new thing is `|` (pipe) operator and `date` written after it.

### Pipe
As explained earlier in Introduction section, Pipe is used to format the data in template without actually altering the data. We can use pipe using `|` symbol and writing pipe name after it.

Angular 2 provides below ready to use pipes:
- date
- uppercase
- lowercase
- currency
- percent
- json
- async

Details of all these pipe is not in scope of this tutorial. You can get more information of that [here](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/#!?apiFilter=pipe).

In this tutorial we will explore date filter.

#### DatePipe
Date pipe formats the date object/number to user readable date. We can specify the format by passing parameter to it. Default format is 'MMM,d y'

```html
<dd>{{project.endDate | date : "MM/dd/yy"}}</dd>
```

The way to pass parameters to pipe is same for all the pipes, which is by using `:`. If any pipe accepts more than one parameters, we can chain it like `project.data | pipe : para1 : para2 : para3`

That's it for this section. In next section we will learn how to create a custom pipe.