# Create Custom Pipe
We want to implement functionality to filter the projects list by project's name. By implementing this feature, we will learn below angular 2 concepts:
- How to create custom pipe
- How to use that custom pipe in component

Let's start developing pipe to filter the project list.

## Step 1: Create ProjectFilterPipe
If we think programmatically, pipe is a class with `transform` method and is decorated with `@Pipe` decorator. That's it. Simple enough!. Now, with this understanding, let's create ProjectFilter pipe to filter the project list.

**app/projects/projects-filter.pipe.ts**

```typescript
import {Pipe, PipeTransform} from 'angular2/core';

@Pipe({
    name: 'projectsFilter'
})
export class ProjectsFilterPipe implements PipeTransform{
    
    /**
     * Implementing PipeTransform's transform method to filter projects by its name.
     */
    transform(lstProjects: any[], args: string[]){
        var filterText = args[0];
        if(lstProjects && filterText){
            return lstProjects.filter((oProject: any)=>{
                return oProject.name.toLowerCase().indexOf(filterText.toLowerCase()) > -1;
            });
        }else{
            return lstProjects;
        }
    }
}
```

Let's understand above code in detail.

In first line, we imported `Pipe` decorator as we do generally with components. We have also imported `PipeTransform` interface and marked our pipe class to implement this interface. Use of interface is totally optional, but it is good for static code analysis.

We have specified name of the pipe by passing it to pipe decorator argument `@Pipe({name: 'projectsFilter'})`. We will use this `name` in template to use this pipe.

Whenever angular finds a pipe in the component's template, it will call the `transform` method of that pipe with first argument as the data on which we are applying the pipe and second argument as the array of all parameters that we have passed from template.

So, in case of PorjectsFilterPipe, if we write `projects | projectsFilter : 'para1' : 'para2' : para3` in the template, first argument of `transform` method will receive `projects` array and second argument of `transform` method will receive `['para1', 'para2', para3]`. 

`transform` method needs to return the filtered/formatted/converted data. If you don't return anything, nothing will be shown on the template.

Now, in next step we will see how to use this pipe in component template.

## Step 2: Register ProjectsFilterPipe in ProjectListComponent
To use ProjectsFilterPipe in template, we need to first register it with ProjectListComponent, otherwise angular won't be able to parse it and will throw an error. So let's register it first.

**app/projects/projects-list.component.ts**
```typescript
import {ProjectsFilterPipe} from './projects-filter.pipe';

@Component({
    ...
    pipes: [ProjectsFilterPipe]
})
export class ProjectListComponent{
    ...
}
```

## Step 3: Capture FilterText
As we want to filter the projects list by its name, we need to put a textfield in template of ProjectListComponent and capture it. Let's add code for that.

**app/projects/projects-list.component.ts**
```typescript
...
export class ProjectListComponent{
    ...
    filterText: string;
    ...
}
```

**app/projects/projects-list.component.html**
```html
<div class="mdl-textfield mdl-js-textfield mdl-textfield--floating-label" id="filterProjects">
    <input class="mdl-textfield__input" type="text" 
            id="filterTxt" (keyup)="filterText = $event.target.value" />
    <label class="mdl-textfield__label" for="filterTxt">Filter...</label>
</div>
<div class="projects-list mdl-list">
    ...
</div>
```

In above code `(keyup)="filterText = $event.target.value"`, we are capturing the text written in the textfield using keyup event binding and assigning it to `filterText` property of the class.

# Step 4: Use ProjectsFiltePipe in ProjectListComponent Template
This is the final step for using custom pipe. We have the custom filter pipe created, we created a textfield to capture the text by which we will filter the results. So just add pipe in template now.

**app/projects/projects-list.component.html**
```html
...
<div class="projects-list mdl-list">
    <div class="mdl-list__item" *ngFor="#project of projects | projectsFilter: filterText" ...>
            ...
    </div>
</div>
```

After this step, you will be able to filter the projects by the text which we enter in the filter textfield.

This marks the end of Pipe chapter. In next chapter we will learn about directives.

If you have stuck somewhere, just checkout the code of this chapter by executing below command:
```
git checkout step-4
```