# Child Router
As we saw in the expected output, that we have two screens related to project functionality: Project List-Detail and Project Form. For maintainability and reusability it will be good if we can configure project related routes in projects component rather than putting all route configs in root component. We will do that in this section and by doing this we will understand below angular 2 concept:
- How to configure child router

## Step 1: Refactor Projects Component
As mentioned above, there are two screens for project functionality, we need to create a container component which will contain both two child components: ProjectListDetailComponent and ProjectFormComponent. First create ProjectsListDetailComponent by renaming our ProjectsComponent's class and template file to project-list-detail.component.html and project-list-detail.component.ts. For reference check it  [here](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/c849a19b4a3119d410186a0599d191ea95408684#diff-26e4166b5209cf2c539af3ba5d6fd33cR1). Now create a new ProjectsComponent with following content:

**app/projects/projects.component.ts**
```typescript
import {Component} from 'angular2/core';
import {RouteConfig, ROUTER_DIRECTIVES} from 'angular2/router';
import {ProjectListDetailComponent} from './project-list-detail.component';

@RouteConfig([
    {path: '/', name: 'ProjectListDetail', component: ProjectListDetailComponent, useAsDefault: true}
])
@Component({
    selector: 'project',
    template: `
        <router-outlet></router-outlet>
    `,
    directives: [ROUTER_DIRECTIVES]
})
export class ProjectsComponent{
       
}
```

Here in above code,  you can see, we defined `RouteConfig` for this component and in template we have written just `<router-outlet></router-outlet>`.  By doing this we are making this component totally self contained. So if we bootstrap the application with this component as root component it will work, and if we want to use it as child component, it should work with one adjustment. Let's do it in next step.


## Step 2: Configure Project Child Route In Root Component
As in previous step, we have created ProjectsComponent with its own route configuration, we need to delegate task of routing of project related screens to it rather than doing it in root component. Let's do this change.

**app/app.component.ts**
```typescript
import {ProjectsComponent} from './projects/projects.component';
...

@RouteConfig([
    ...
    {path: '/project/...', name: 'Projects', component: ProjectsComponent},
])
...
export class AppComponent{

}
```

Note that we changed the path to `/project/...`. Here, `...` specifies that there is a child router for this component. So now, when we hit url `http://localhost:3000/project`, it will find the route information from ProjectsComponent, in which we have configured ProjectListDetailComponent as default route, so it will render it in `<router-outlet>` of ProjectsComponent.