# Route Parameter
As you know, that project edit form should be opened from dashboard and project list detail screen. So in this section we will refactor our ProjectsListDetailComponent and remove ProjectFormComponent from it. We will configure ProjectForm component in route so it can be called from both the screens. In this section we will understand below angular router concept:
- How to pass route parameter between routes
- How to navigate between routes programmatically

Let's start developing to achieve above goal.

## Step 1: Refactor ProjectListDetailComponent
First we need to remove code related to ProjectForm from ProjectListDetailComponent. You can do it by checking code diff for [project-list-detail.component.html](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/d95c72c7d7ee6486103c48ecb918308e9b8c2f03#diff-f54f185ef4ee54304a3e03eb97b5a53cR12) and [project-list-detail.component.ts](https://github.com/shripalsoni04/angular2-tutorial-app/commit/d95c72c7d7ee6486103c48ecb918308e9b8c2f03#diff-26e4166b5209cf2c539af3ba5d6fd33cR28).

## Step 2: Configure Project Form Route
Let's configure project form route so it can be called from project detail screen and from dashboard.

**app/projects/projects.component.ts**
```typescript
import {ProjectFormComponent} from './project-form.component';
...

@RouteConfig([
    ...
    {path: '/add', name: 'ProjectAdd', component: ProjectFormComponent},
    {path: '/:id', name: 'ProjectEdit', component: ProjectFormComponent}
])
@Component({
    ...
})
export class ProjectsComponent{
    ...    
}
```
As you can see, we have configured two routes. One for add and another for edit. For both the routes, ProjectFormComponent will be executed. Note that for edit route, we have `/:id` as path value. This is called `route parameter`. So whenever the url is like  `/project/1`, `ProjectEdit` route will be executed with `id` set to 1.

## Step 3: Navigate To Project Form  From Project Detail View
As routes for add/edit project form is configured, let's navigate to it to edit the project data on click of edit button in ProjectDetailComponent.

**app/projects/project-detail.component.ts**
```typescript
import {Router} from 'angular2/router';

...
export class ProjectDetailComponent{
    constructor(private _router: Router, ...){ }
    
    editProject(project: Project){
        this._router.navigate(['ProjectEdit', {id: project.id}]);
    }
}
```

To navigate to any route programmatically, we can use `Router` service of `router` module. `Router` service has many methods for the purpose of navigation. You can check them at [here](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/Router-class.html). Here, we will use `navigate` method to programmatically navigate to some route. 

`navigate` method accepts Route Link DSL in its argument, which is an array of link params. In Route Link DSL, we need to provide the full path including the route parameter values if any. So in above code, if we want to navigate to `project/1` url, our Route Link DSL will be `['ProjectEdit', {id: 1}]`. Here, `ProjectEdit` is the name of the route, which has its path configured as `/:id` and we are passing value of that `:id` parameter by an object `{id: 1}`. You may have question, from where does this `project/` came in url. Well, we are already at `/project` url when we see project detail component so no need to append it to Route Link DSL.

In this step we learnt how to navigate to a route programmatically. In next step we will see how to navigate to a route from template.

## Step 4: Navigate To Project Form From Dashboard
As you know, in dashboard component we have put a button to edit the project from there. So on click of that edit button, project form should open in edit mode. Let's implement it. 

**app/dashboard/dashboard.component.ts**
```typescript
...
import {ROUTER_DIRECTIVES} from 'angular2/router';

@Component({
    ...
    directives: [ROUTER_DIRECTIVES, ...]
})
export class DashboardComponent{
    ...
}
```

**app/dashboard/dashboard.component.html**
```html
...
<div class="mdl-card__menu">
    <a class="mdl-button mdl-button--icon mdl-js-button mdl-js-ripple-effect mdl-color-text--accent-contrast"
        [routerLink]="['Projects', 'ProjectEdit', {id: project.id}]">
        <i class="material-icons">mode_edit</i>
    </a>
</div>
...
```

We can navigate to any route from template using `routerLink` directive. It accepts Route Link DSL as we understood in previous step. As we want to navigate to project form from dashboard (url path: `/`), we need to include `Projects` route also in Route Link DSL. 

## Step 5: Get Route Parameter
We are passing `id` as a route parameter from both project detail view and from dashboard. Let's fetch the value of that `id` route parameter in ProjectFormComponent.

**app/projects/project-form.component.ts**
```typescript
import {RouteParams, ...} from 'angular2/router';
...

...
export class ProjectFormComponent implements OnInit {
    constructor(private _routeParams: RouteParams, ...){
        
    }
     
    ngOnInit() {
        var projectId = +this._routeParams.get('id');
        ...    
    }
}
```

As you can see in above code, we first imported RouteParams service from router module, and then used it to get the id by writing `this._routeParams.get('id')`. Here, `get` is the method of `RouteParams` service and `id` is the router parameter name which we have given at the time of route config in ProjectsComponent.

In this section we learnt how to navigate programmatically and from template to other route with parameter. We also learnt how to get the value of route parameter in the component navigated to.

In next section we will understand how to prevent navigation using Router Lifecycle Hook.