# Router Lifecycle Hooks
In our Project Management App, we want to add functionality to prompt the user to save data if user tries to navigate from project form without saving the data. By implementing this functionality we will come to know below angular 2 concept:
- Introduction to Router Lifecycle Hook
- How to implement CanDeactivate Hook

## Introduction to Router Lifecycle Hooks
We have already used some of the lifecycle hooks of component like `ngOnInit` and `ngOnDestroy`. Similar to that, router also has three lifecycle hooks. They are:
- [CanActivate](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/CanActivate-decorator.html) - Called before navigation to determine if component should be instantiated or not.
- [OnActivate](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/OnActivate-interface.html) - Called after successful route navigation.
- [CanDeactivate](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/CanDeactivate-interface.html) - Called before being navigated from to determine if a component can be removed as part of navigation.

Router lifecycle hooks can prevent creation and destruction of the components, which is a major distinction from component lifecycle hooks.

All three lifecycle hooks will work synchronously if we return boolean value and asynchronously if we return promise from their relevant router hook methods.

Router hook method for all three lifecycle hooks are as follows:
- CanActivate - Don't have any router hook method because it is called before instantiation of component. So we need to use `@CanActivate((next, prev) => boolean | Promise<boolean>)` decorator which takes function as an argument.
- OnActivate - `routerOnActivate(next: ComponentInstruction, prev: ComponentInstruction) => any | Promise<any>`
- CanDeactivate - `routerCanDeactivate(next: ComponentInstruction, prev: ComponentInstruction) => boolean | Promise<boolean>`

With these much understanding of router lifecycle hooks, we are good to develop the functionality to restrict navigation if data is unsaved. Let's start developing it.

## Step 1: Install lodash
To implement above functionality, we need to do deep comparison between the value of project data on load of component and the data at the time of navigation. To do deep comparison we will use [`lodash`](https://lodash.com/) library. Let's install it by executing below commands:

```
npm install lodash --save
typings install lodash --ambient --save
```

and then import lodash library in `index.html`
**index.html**
```html
<head>
...
<script src="node_modules/lodash/lodash.js"></script>
...
</head>
```

## Step 2: Store Project Data On Load
To compare the data at the time of navigation, we need to first store the initial value of project data when it loads. Let's do it.

**app/projects/project-form.component.ts**
```typescript
...
export class ProjectFormComponent implements OnInit {
    
    ...
    
    loadProject(projectId: number) {
        if (projectId) {
            this._projectService
                .getProject(projectId)
                .subscribe((project: Project) => {
                    this.initialProject = project;
                    this.project = Object.assign({}, project);
                });
        }
    }

    ngOnInit() {
        var projectId = +this._routeParams.get('id');
        
        // In case of edit mode, get data by projectId from api. 
        // In case of add mode, store just create an instance and store it as initial value
        if (projectId) {
            this.loadProject(projectId);
        } else {
            this.initialProject = this.project = new Project();
        }
        ...
    }
}
```

## Step 3: Implement CanDeactivate Hook To Prevent Navigation If Unsaved Data
Now let's see how to restrict user from being navigated without saving project form data by implementing `CanDeactivate` hook.

**app/projects/project-form.component.ts**
```typescript
...
import {RouteParams, Router, CanDeactivate, ComponentInstruction} from 'angular2/router';

export class ProjectFormComponent implements CanDeactivate {
    
    ...
    
    routerCanDeactivate(next: ComponentInstruction, prev: ComponentInstruction) {
        var isDataChanged = !_.isEqual(this.project, this.initialProject); 
        if(isDataChanged){
            if(window.confirm('You have unsaved changes. Do you want to cancel changes?')){
                return true;
            }else{
                return false;
            }
        }else{
            return true;
        }
    }
}
```

`routerCanDeactivate` method is called by router before being navigated from ProjectEdit route. This method is called with [`ComponentInstruction`](https://angular.io/docs/ts/latest/api/router/ComponentInstruction-interface.html) of next component (where we are going to navigate) and prev component (form where we are being navigated).

As explained earlier in introduction section of router lifecycle hooks, we can return either `boolean` or `Promise<boolean>` from `routerCanDeactivate` method. Here, we are returning boolean value based on the data is changed or not. So if `routerCanDeactivate` returns false, the navigation to the next route will be cancelled and if `routerCanDeactivate` returns true, it will be navigated to next route.

This brings end to the chapter of Router Lifecycle Hooks.

If you have stuck somewhere or if you want the code of this step, you can get it by executing below command:
```
git checkout step-8
npm install
```

This brings the end of this tutorial. Hope you found it useful.